Hello, everyone.
So welcome back.
And listen, I would be showing you some really wonderful codes that would like interest you to make
your own personalized codes that would always help you in competitive programming.
Right.
So let's move on to my friend's code.
So this was the very simple code that we saw.
I would be using this code throughout the whole course and we would be like modifying and coding of
other stuff in this code on the right that is the two codes.
One is CP and the other is CP.
Simple, right?
Just personalized for me.
cool!, now let's move on to the next code, which is one of my close friends code and his name is
Saurabh
And yeah, so as you can see, guys, the code becomes a little fancier here.
But yes, of course it is quite useful too, but not for everyone, right?
Everyone has their own choices and their own preferences.
Right So above we can see it is a commented out sanskrit shlok
It might be his favorite shlok, or maybe this motivates him both.
Accordingly, you can write your favorite lines of some particular poem.
Or.
From a motivation quote by someone.
Anything, right?
Whatever.
You wish.
It's your code.
Then of course you need to comment it out guys.
Otherwise it will given compilation error.
After this, what happens is that just a single header file for all the other header files that I used to.
Then again, namespace
After this, we can see so many defines over here.
Right?
So I'll show you all these defines one by one, and I tell you how those work.
And, yeah, so these.
He's a regular competitive programmer.
with like to 2-3 years of experience.
So of course he has made this code after thinking after like having a good experience.
Right.
So after having a good experience, he might have thought that these are the things that he would be
using in his daily life while coding it out.
Coding this stuff so for set he's using si, pb, f,s so the top four parts.
are like the same as I.
Mentioned in my cpsimple the top four are the same.
And then this is set and then vector int and pair int , then vector of pair and vector of pair pair.
And there are a lot of things.
It's a map.
Map of pairs, set, set of pairs, then he's defined endl as "\n".
So I'll be telling you the differences between endl which is end line and "\n", which is moved to
the next line.
Now both of them are different things, and I'll be discussing this in more detail in the section of
policy based.
Okay, not policy based interactive problems, section in the course later so there are interactive
problems in that section will be covering this in detail what is endl and "\n ", what the differences
between them.
Then we generally use size right that v.size() , I want to iterate over a vector I'll iterate till
size of the vector.
So for that he is using using this small function, then all is like begin to end whenever we used
to like sort a vector or other things.
So it's like start from beginning go till end sort
All right.
So instead of writing sort p.begin() to p.end() just write sort, all right.
And all will be replaced by this particular name.
So it's just a double has been defined as long double.
So you don't want to take any of this in the precision values, right?
Like while calculating some long double values or answers.
Then he has Max.
priority queue, min priority queue
And instead of writing all of this in a particular coding round, because of course, as I told you,
he's lot of these.
He has a lot of experience and he's a pretty good coder.
And he he likes to do fancy stuff, of course.
Right.
And so he's just trying to save his time.
Let me have this bug function I'll tell you how this works in this video itself.
So it's a recursive function and it takes multiple arguments and I'll show you how it works you can also
use that's pretty good I also use that and then it is print so what is here.
He is simply printing a particular vector then print one is.
He simply.
printing a pair right, a pair of vector which has a first and second.
And then what is print2,  print2 is like from X to Y i.e for a particular range.
print an array so there are  lot of stuffs that you might be near to these guys.
Of course you might not be getting it right now.
This is a power function.
We'll be discussing this in more detail in the mathematics section.
And.
Yeah.
Well, where was I?
Yeah, I was telling you that you might not be doing all this stuff that he has defined a way.
But just and just as I said, I would be discussing a lot of examples of different codes that are there.
So it's his personalized codes.
So whenever he codes, he uses vpi, pii, vi, si.
So it should be engraved in your mind if you want to use a a MAP, MPI.
It's for him
Right.
But it's not necessarily for you to do it, too.
guy's what happens is when these things like come in the back of your mind, then during the interviews
also it simply slips out of our hands we code it like mpi  Vi in the interviews, which
is not a good practice, as I already told you.
Right.
So.
It is a power function he has defined because he might be using it a lot.
And then this is a good template.
You should use this.
I'll tell you how this works.
As we know, there's ff, okay, I'll come to this later.
And after this what happens, he has defined a constant int
It's really useful.
I'll be using this throughout the whole course too, right  a constant int  and whenever we move on to the old stuff,
I will be like simply.
Adding particular things in this code right.
Well, then he has a function called solve.
So let's see, how does this work?
So this is a this is another.
trick to like take bulk input and write bulk output.
So it helps to save your time.
It reduces the time limit to something.
What happens when you're trying a long, challenging codechef
There's a very strict time limit for somebody, the problems so to overcome those particular big
time limits.
You can use this particular function.
It will like take big bulky input and give the bulk output again.
I'll be using.
I'll be explaining all of this in the.
Interactive Problems Guide.
So I make a section called Interactive Problems in which I'll be telling you what interactive problems,
how to overcome those interactive problems.
And let's bring you the coding stuff.
They are only right.
This has already been told to you.
What he does is.
Is like to check this that.
He likes.
Okay, so we have this c e r r.
What is this c error?
So as we know, we have certain terms which are let me right here it is cin.
So the other term is cout
So these are for standard input and output.
But then he has this thing called cerr, which is C error.
Right? not input not output but error, what is C  error do C error does not does not write in the standard
output c error does not read from standard input.
So it's a different stream overall.
So is this standard error stream.
So let me build these guys.
Let's build this code.
So I build this code.
So what we can see is that he has got a runtime that this was the time that my code took to run
who started a clock at this particular location called 69 and it's 75 after going in this all function.
So I'll explain you why he has done this the t nad other things
No problem.
These are simply printing out like what is the total time my code took to ran the above stuff?
So again, affensive stuff.
You can use it, you can not.
You may right but do not print in the output stream.
Always use the standard error editor steam rate if you want to do this because in output stream a judge
will like an online judge will compare this with the given output and then you will face various problems
there later.
Don't use it or what you can do is you can simply like.
Sometimes what happens is you're writing a code and you got stuck in it.
You want to check out the books?
They do check out the bus.
What you're going to do is you can have a third file.
It is after you open a third file, let's say at Adobe XD.
What are you going to do is you can write to that file and what do you have to do?
What you can write, it's standard at it.
Well, guys, I hope you're getting this.
So I'm opening a third file called Standard Error so I can make a third file called editor.
And I didn't write standard error to that.
Right.
So you can do it yourself.
It's not a big deal.
All has been already explained to you or you can use it this way.
Okay, so now let's come on to this party line number 71, 72 and 73.
So why is this comment out?
Because there are no test cases.
Whenever you give contest, when you try to give contests or you will see that there are many test cases.
So it's like initially and then they are given five as a number of testcases and then you have five
times the input, right,  you want your code to run on five different test cases.
Let's say in the input I give five as a test cases.
And in every test case I'm taking an integer let's say two, three, four, five, six, these are the five
integers in every test case.
I want my I want my code to run like five times.
So what I do is I simply comment it out .
What will this do?
Earlier t was one.
No problem.
Then I overwrite t by taking input from the input.txt so t becomes five right now what happens is
this solve function it runs five times so here whar I'll do is take n, let's input n
And let's print n.
Right.
What I get is two, three, four, five, six, five why because this while loop ran five times and for all the
five times, solve function was called, whenever this solve function was called
I took an integer as an input. Let's say you have been given an array as an input
and you have only two test let's say 2 and the length of array is 3, so 1 2 3
is the first array, length of the other array is five so 1 2 3 4 5
And what do you want to do is you want to reverse the array and print for each of the testcases.
right, how can you do that again?
Same thing.
If I comment it out, guys, what does this mean?
There are no test cases that t is equal to one.
You have only one input, so you won't take anything as an input and just calls solve function once all
the coding stuff is done in this solve function, not in the main function for him.
What I do is I simply.
int n
Then let's take this as an input.
Let's take an array for length n
Okay, so you might be confused.
So what I'm done is I have made a sublime snippet for for function right.
So that's it.
Or what I can do is I can use this to print.
But right now, I'm just.
Going my way.
so, let's input array so I've taken this array as an input.
And now reverse the array
So how to reverse the array
a,a+n, let's pass the array to this and
Yeah.
cout << a[i]
Let's give it space.
And after all of this has been printed , let's.
Give a.
\n so guys, if he codes it out, he won't be writing \n here.
He won't be like.
printing it all of it he would be simply writing printa.
Right.
We can also try that.
Not a big issue.
So.
Yeah.
Okay, so there's a problem here.
What I what I'm getting is I'm getting one three in output.
Okay, so I commented it out.
So what does this mean?
That there's only one testcase and what is the testcase it is, 2
So I haven't taken that as an input.
So 2 is the length of the array guys
It's a length of the array
Then in the array is taken as an input, which is of length 2.
So it is three and one as an input.
After that I reverse the array,  so 3 1 was the input, so teh array reverse is 1 3 and  I am printing the array which is
one three, right.
So instead of that, let's comment it out.
And let's build this.
so, right now you might be thinking that it's a big stuff.
It's so much, but it's not.
Actually, if you like sit for like half an hour and you try it again and again, you'll get friendly
with it.
Right.
And I would like I would suggest you to make a solve function.
And solve testcase like this
Right.
So let me change it in my code only.
Let's do this and.
void solve
right, so this will be my new snippet if I want to have
Different testcases.
Right?
But right now it's I'm just doing things here for teaching purposes, for like educational purposes.
I won't be like saving it because I won't be using many testcases here for that purpose.
For test cases purposes, I've already told you what's the best way.
It is always good to write a function, to make a method and solving that method.
If you code everything in int main, your code would look pretty bad.
And if the code looks very bad, like and let's say after some particular time your code is not even
right, your code is not giving a right answer.
Then you will face a lot of difficulty in like.
Fixing it, fixing the code.
Right.
So what I would suggest to you is always like, if you want to go do something new, just write a new
method for it.
Call that method, give input to take output from it.
It becomes easier to debug.
It becomes easier to understand.
Right.
And I know it's not for everyone.
It's for you.
And it will become easier for you.
It won't be right.
So this was about reversing and other  stuff.
So let's say you guys, as I said, I would be explaining you this template to this is a debugging template,
right?
Let me show you here.
He has defined a bug where he has called this function once and is passing these variable arguments
into this function __F
Right.
So it's a recursive function guys I'll show you.
See this is a function and here it is calling f again right, so it's a recursive function.
If you want to do like going deep inside, you can go.
It's not a big deal.
But what happens from this is see, let me show you.
Let's say 've one test case and
Here.
I have two variables.
10 and 20
Let's take them as inout in n,
M.
So what happens, guys?
I can print n and m
But guys, what happens is when you're trying to debug your code, when you're struggling to code,
you want to print many values together.
At this particular point of time, I is this.
j is This dpij is this the cost value is  this other stuff, right?
So for that, we cannot use cout again and again like cout cout cout , and then it will take a lot of time
and then we'll remove it.
It will again take a lot of time.
So for ease of use, right.
So for.
Like, well, not taking a lot of headache.
What we do is we define a recursive function and we just call it like a bug.
Let's say I'm passing n to it.
What will it do is it will just print the value of n that n is this right.
So that's defined here only get this this particular you can change this you can make it a dash, you
can make it , you can make it whatever you wish.
You can change it according to you.
Right?
Similarly, you can change it over here.
You can change it over here.
Right.
And let me show you why is it ending right.
Let's say I'm printing two values now n m and so I just put a comma and pass the variable to bug.
So this function bug a bug is actually a define and it is calling in __F and __F is
taking multiple.
arguments.
You can see this.
It's a multiple argument thing.
And here I can pass on other variables too.
If I have some.
Whenever I'll be like.
What do you say?
Yeah.
So whenever I'll be like, I stuck at some place, I want to print out new things.
New stuff.
check , what is the value of this?
This if I and j is this again, like simply add commas and print stuff here and like check them at once
instead of writing cout again and again.
And whenever I submit the code I'll simply comment it out by pressing control and slash right, forward
slash.
Cool.
So these are like some small tips and tricks.
And for competitive programming, they are really handy and they will help you a lot.
So of course it's like a bonus thing for you guys.
It's out of the course content, right?
Out of data structures and algorithms.
But these are some small, small things which saves you a lot of time because let's say, let's say.
Let's like call it mathematically, let's say these small things are saving one minute of the day.
Okay, just one minute.
So and you're doing cp for an year so you it's actually saving 365 minutes.
per year
And of course, guys, believe me, this would be saving a lot of time.
A lot of time.
Right.
Whenever you go inside competitive programming, you solve some problems and give some contest.
cool guys.
So that's it.
see you in the next part, thank you for attending this lecture.